joshua - How to Submit the RIGHT Upwork Proposals (10 Steps!) 
Abstract
These are the 10 steps including
one, fully read the job title
two, check the skill level,
three, check the date and the time posted.
four, check the
five, check the number
six, check
seven, check client reviews,
eight, check
nine, check
ten, check the bid range.

 - Do you hear that?  That's the sound of all your Upwork connects going down the drain, because you're submitting the wrong job proposals.  But don't worry, 'cause in this video, I'm gonna give you 10 steps, 10 steps that you can implement to help you save your Upwork connects,  and to ultimately, submit the right job proposals.  If you've been freelancing on Upwork,  then you're aware of the recent connects policy change.  This new policy changes how Upwork connects are required  when you're submitting a job proposal,  and also increases the price of connects  if you are to run out of them, and want to purchase more.  So now when you submit a proposal, it's going to require  one to six connects, and that's gonna depend  on the specific job, so the type of job,  the estimated value of the job, the duration, the budget.  All those things are gonna factor in  to how many connects are required.  For example, say you have a job with the budget of $40.  and you have one with $1,000.  The job that has $1,000 budget  is gonna require more connects than the $40 budget,  and then for the price of Upwork connects,  those were increased to 15 cents apiece,  so if you run out of your Upwork connects,  and you want to purchase more,  they're gonna be 15 cents each.  So I know your initial thought may be,  Upwork's just doing this to make more money.  They're just trying to increase the prices,  make it more difficult freelancers,  and make more money.  But let me a perspective that you need to be thinking about  from a client perspective.  One of the main issues for Upwork clients  is feeling overwhelmed and not being able to find  the best talent because of how many job proposals  are being submitted for their jobs.  When a client has to scroll through  numerous amounts of job proposals,  trying to find the best fit for them,  it gets overwhelming when they're having  to go through so many.  Trust me, I have an Upwork employer account,  so I know that a lot of job proposals that come through,  should not be coming through.  A lot of them aren't taking the time they need to take  to make sure they're applying for the jobs  that give them the best chance to actually win the job.  They're going through with low effort,  submitting a bunch of proposals,  thinking that hey, if I submit a large number of proposals,  I'm gonna get one of these jobs.  That does not work, and you're never gonna get a job,  if that's your mindset.  So when you think about this connect policy change,  think about it in terms of the client,  and yourself as a freelancer.  It's beneficial for both ends.  The client won't have to scroll through  as many job proposals from a bunch of freelancers,  who shouldn't even be bidding on their job,  and therefore, your benefit as a freelancer,  your job proposal is gonna be ranked higher  because you're gonna be submitting proposals  on jobs that best fit your skills, best fit the  requirements, and it's gonna give you a better chance  to rank higher and be noticed by the clients,  so in this video what I'm doing for you,  is I'm gonna give you 10 steps to take  before you submit a job proposal.  These 10 steps are gonna make sure  that you're submitting the right job proposals  to give you the best chance to win a job  over other freelancers.  Before we get into the 10 steps, I ask one thing of you  if you get value from this video,  it's beneficial to you, and you enjoy the content  and all the freelance content  that I'm putting on my channel,  please give this video a like,  and consider subscribing to the channel as well,  so you don't miss out on all my future videos.  Also be sure to check out the description of this video.  There's gonna be a link in it  where you can go, enter your email address,  then you can download a free PDF checklist  that's gonna have a lot of the steps  that we're talking about here in this video  for submitting a job proposal.  It's a checklist that you can go through  each time that you're submitting a job proposal  to make sure that you're not skipping anything,  so again it's completely free,  it's down in the description of this video,  just click on the link.  It'll take you to a web page,  you enter your email address,  and then you can download it.  Step number one, fully read the job title  and the job description.  After coming across a job title  that falls within your skill set  and looks like something you can do,  make sure that you're reading the entire job description,  the full job description, read it all in detail.  Sure, I get it.  This is something everyone should know,  but it's something that's easily overlooked,  and I know that from my own personal experience.  In my early days freelancing on Upwork  I focused way too heavily on the job title,  I would apply for jobs  without reading the full job description  because I saw the title,  and it looked like something I could do.  So what ended up happening as a consequence,  I either never heard back from the client,  never got an interview, or I got an interview,  and we got on a phone call,  and I realized I didn't have all the skill set  that they needed because I didn't go through  the full job description,  and I know that if you've been on Upwork for a while,  you know exactly what I'm talking about,  you'll see a job title.  Oh this is perfect, this is definitely something  that's within my skill set.  I'll find something that says like  sequel server database administration,  and then I go and read the job description,  and then there's things in there  like wanting to build a front end application,  in C#, obviously does not fall  within the database aspect of it.  I know that you guys that have been freelancing for a while,  know what I'm talking about.  So make sure that you're reading the full job description  in detail, to save connects,  so you don't bid on jobs that you don't have the skills for,  end up wasting your connects,  and wasting your time doing an interview,  you can applying that to a jobs  that you're actually qualified for,  and have the skill set for.  Make sure that you're reading the full job description  to save your connects, and on top of saving connects,  it also comes down to submitting the right job proposals,  that's gonna get you the job,  and it's gonna lead you to having a five star review  because you're not taking something  that you're not qualified for  and you don't feel comfortable doing in the first place.  Step number two, check the skill level,  are you using appropriate filters  when searching for jobs and projects.  You need to be using advanced filters and searches  when you're looking for Upwork jobs,  so that you're searching for the right skill levels.  So before you submit a job proposal,  look at the desired skill level  that the client listed on the job.  If your skill level is entry level or intermediate,  and you're looking at expert level jobs,  you may want to pay close attention to that,  because you may not have the desired skills.  In my personal journey as a freelancer,  when I first started, I had my skill set,  set to intermediate level.  I mainly did this because I was brand new to freelancing.  I wanted to prove to myself that I could be a freelancer,  and I wanted to be able to take on jobs  that I knew I could do well on  where the expectations weren't set too high  at expert level, when I didn't have any jobs completed yet.  Let's take a quick look at my job history and my profile,  and I'll show you a couple of these jobs  that were intermediate level that I started out on first,  and I ended up getting five star reviews,  because I delivered on them.  So here we are in my profile,  and I'll give you one quick tip  before we go take a look at a couple of jobs.  So as you can see, my job success score is currently at 99%.  Now the reason for this,  is because I have 30 jobs in progress.  I need to go through these jobs,  close out the ones that aren't active anymore,  and just tell my clients that if they have more work to me,  then they can just open up a new project  because they're always fine doing that.  So there are several things  that factor in your job success score.  You can highlight over it, and if you click this link,  it'll give you descriptions of each of these.  One of them is jobs in progress that are inactive.  That factors into your job success score,  so mine basically consistently goes back and forth  between 99% and 100%,  and it's always due to my jobs in progress.  So every one of your reviews could be five stars,  and pretty much all of mine are.  I have a couple that are like 4.8,  but basically you can have all five star reviews like these,  but your job success score will continuously  bounce between 98% and 100%,  because of how many inactive jobs that you have open.  So you can join me and start going through  all your inactive jobs and trying to get reviews for those.  But anyway, let's scroll down and take a look  at a couple specific jobs.  Okay, so these first few jobs were definitely expert level,  and you can tell that based on the money  that I made on them and the hourly rates.  But if we take a look at the next one,  we can see that this one was for $27 an hour,  ended up making almost two grand on it which is great,  and if we take a look at the date started,  we can see that I started this job in August of 2016.  So I began my career on Upwork as a freelancer  in May of 2016, so this was very early  in my freelance journey.  So we click on this job,  the first and most important thing on this job  is that I got five stars on everything.  I got great feedback.  Let me tell you one thing, if clients believe in you,  they trust you, you have great reviews,  the money will come.  Focus more on the reviews you're getting,  the trust you're gaining in your clients,  and all the money that you want will come to you.  So in this job, I fully read the title,  fully went through the job description,  and then I checked the skill level as well,  to make sure that time, it was either entry level,  or intermediate, which is what I was focusing on.  Then to show you one more job.  This was the first job that I ever had  on Upwork as a freelancer.  You can see that it was for $25 an hour,  ended up making $1,000 on it,  and it started in June of 2016,  right after I created my account.  Most importantly, again, focus on this review  and focus on this feedback that I got.  This is so important when you first start freelancing,  you need these.  If we click on this job,  again, fully went through the job title,  fully went through the description,  and we get down to the skill level  again entry level, intermediate,  that's what I was focusing on.  So make sure that you're filtering and searching  for the right skill levels,  and if you don't know how to do this,  check out the card at the very top of the screen.  I'm gonna link a video in  where I go through and explain how to use Upwork search  and rank higher in search, and within that video,  I go through and do filtered searches.  Step number three, check the date and the time posted.  Before you submit a job proposal,  you need to check the date and time  that the job was posted on Upwork.  To give you a personal example,  when I first started on Upwork,  I didn't pay enough attention to the day and time created.  What ended up happening as a result,  is that I submitted proposals  on jobs that clients were no longer active on  and they had been posted a long time ago.  I just looked at the title and description,  and decided it met my skill set,  and what I wanted to do on Upwork.  I submitted proposals, but the clients  weren't even looking at those jobs anymore,  because they were created so long ago.  So let's go ahead and look at a real live example.  I'm gonna show you an example on Upwork right now,  of a job that was posted a long time ago,  that the client is not active on.  Okay, so here we are looking for new jobs, scrolling down.  Oh wow, ongoing remote position Sequel Server DBA  20 to 40 hours a week.  Wow, that looks amazing, a lot of work,  and this client's also spent over $300,000.  I'm gonna go ahead and bid on this one.  So we can see that I did submit a proposal here,  but just ignore that and pretend that I didn't.  So we're scrolling down,  this job's still active by the way,  which is why I'm showing this to you.  So for the title, check,  definitely something I have a ton of experience in.  But look at what we have right under the title  posted seven months ago.  So I don't know about you, but if a client posted a job  seven months ago, I'm gonna assume that they're probably  not looking to fill this anymore.  But how can we verify this.  Maybe this job's just been open for a long time,  but they're still actually trying to find a good fit.  So here's what we can do.  We're gonna scroll down, and boom, here we go,  activity on this job, second line down,  last viewed by client 17 days ago,  so they definitely viewed this job  within the past seven months, from when it was posted.  However, they haven't even looked at this in over two weeks.  Your odds of actually getting this job, are pretty low,  and honestly, the odds of them actually hiring someone  at this point for a job that's been open for seven months,  and they've only looked at it once in the past two weeks.  This is not worth the risk of losing connects over,  trying to get this job.  The job's has been open way too long,  so be sure to check when the job was actually posted,  and the last time that the client viewed the job as well.  In the example that we looked at,  the client hadn't even looked at their job  in over two weeks.  That is a big red flag for me.  I'm not gonna put forth six connects,  up to six connects, trying to beat on this job,  when they're not even looking at it.  Step number four, check the number of proposals submitted.  When an Upwork job is fairly new,  and there's a low level of proposals submitted for the job,  you have the best chance for your proposal to get noticed.  Typically, I find it best to submit proposals,  when there's only been five to 10 submitted.  That's when you're gonna have the best chance,  and again, this ties into why I think  the recent policy on Upwork connects is a good idea,  the new policy is going to limit  the amount of spam submitting,  people submitting proposals that they shouldn't be on jobs,  it's gonna decrease the number of proposals  that are submitted for a given job,  giving you a better chance to get noticed  on the jobs that matter to you.  Again, a personal experience example,  I have an Upwork employer account.  I've hired freelancers to help me with my business  and scaling things up.  So, when I created my job,  I started to get a bunch of proposals pretty early on.  I had an short list, a few freelancers,  that I was really interested in.  So after about three or four days,  I had 20 to 50 proposals submitted on the job  that I posted. Now, from personal experience,  that was overwhelming.  I didn't want to take the time  to go through 20 to 50 proposals  to see if there was someone better than the few freelancers  I already had shortlisted.  That alone is why this step is very important.  You need to make sure that you're applying for the jobs  that best fit your skills, fast  so you're gonna be noticed by the freelancers  and get shortlisted before all those build up,  but when you come across jobs  that look really intriguing to you,  they meet all your skills,  they meet all the check marks.  You take a look at that job,  there's 50 plus proposals submitted on that job,  you need to take a hard look at it  and see if it's worth risking your connects over that,  because especially if you're a new freelancer,  and you get thrown into the mix with 50 plus proposals,  your chance of being noticed in all that mix  is going to be very low.  So for all the new freelancer,  I'll show you again what I mean here.  Here we are scrolling down looking at jobs,  50 plus proposals, 50 plus proposals,  50 plus proposals, your chance of actually being noticed  in that big group of proposals,  especially if you're a new Freelancer, is extremely low.  I'm saying this to help you not waste your connects.  I did this personally.  Trust me, you're gonna be wasting them  if you're bidding on jobs that have 50 plus proposals.  That's so many proposals, and yours getting thrown  into that huge mix of proposals,  there's just a low chance of you actually  getting that job,  and I'm saying this to help you save connects,  so you can use those connects on jobs,  or you have a great chance of getting hired and winning.  Step number five, check the number  of freelancers being interviewed.  Before submitting a proposal it's also really important  to check the number of freelancers,  that are being interviewed,  and being considered by the client.  That means, if the client  is already interviewing some freelancers  who they shortlisted for their job and favorited.  If they're already interviewing these freelancers,  if you submit a proposal,  it has a less chance of being noticed,  and you getting an interview as well,  because they've already narrowed their list down.  They've already found a few freelancers  who they're really interested in and odds are,  they're gonna end up hiring one of those.  So again, let's quickly look at an example  of what I'm talking about.  So here we are in our list of jobs,  we're gonna scroll down, and we'll click on this one.  Take a look at all the job details,  we're going down further.  Here we are, activity on this job, interviewing five,  so they're already interviewing five freelancers.  They also sent out eight invites,  they're probably interviewing most of the ones  that they actually invited to the job,  so if you take a look at the activity on a job,  there's a ton of proposals submitted,  they're interviewing freelancers already.  They invited a bunch,  your odds of actually getting an interview  and winning this job are pretty low.  Let me just show you something.  Is that worth losing six connects over?  Bidding on a job that already has that many proposals,  that many people being interviewed,  are you willing to lose six connects at a chance,  that's very, very, very low  of you getting an interview as well.  Step number six, check the number of connects  required to submit a proposal.  Now this step, obviously, is one of the main steps  and what a lot of this video is geared around.  Now when you submit a proposal on Upwork,  you're gonna have to use between one and six connects  unless the client invited you to bid on their job.  If you receive an invite from a client  to submit a proposal, that doesn't take any connects.  That's the way it was before.  That's the way it is now, you don't have to use connects  if you're invited, but for all the other jobs,  if you're going to spin a proposal,  you're gonna have to use between one and six connects.  So on Step five, when we looked at the example  I showed you at the top  where it showed the amount of connects that were required.  For that specific job, it required six connects.  So when you're going through your checklist,  you're checking off everything,  you get to the connects, if it takes six connects,  but everything's checking off, go ahead and bid on it.  So when you're looking at a job,  and let's just say for instance,  this one takes six connects.  You're looking at the job, things are checking off,  you get to a point where a couple things  aren't really checking off that well,  or you're really unsure if it's gonna fit your skills,  and you're gonna have a great chance of being noticed  by the client, if it's gonna take six connects,  you might want to reconsider  if you should bid on that job or not.  I say that because a new job that better fits your skills,  better checks off on everything could get posted right now,  even as we're talking,  and you would have a better chance  of being noticed by the client,  getting an interview, and ultimately winning.  Step number seven, check client reviews,  just like Upwork, clients are gonna go to your profile,  they're gonna look at your reviews  and your feedback.  You need to do the same for the client,  meaning that you need to be looking at their reviews,  and the feedback that freelancers are leaving the client,  whose job you're interested in.  Obviously for new Upwork clients,  you won't be able to do this one.  However, for pre-existing clients  who've already been on Upwork for a while,  already worked with a lot of freelancers,  they're gonna have reviews and feedback from freelancers.  I've personally worked with over 88 different clients  on Upwork, almost all of them  have been amazing clients to work with.  However, there have been a few very difficult clients  that I've worked with, and you can ask any Freelancer  who's been on Upwork for a long time,  I guarantee you they worked  with a few clients that were really difficult.  So to prevent putting yourself in this type of situation,  what you can do is you can look at the client's reviews,  go through those, see what freelancers  are saying about them, about their communication,  about their professionalism, go look at those reviews,  and again, let's take a look at an example.  Okay, so let's look at a specific example  scrolling down, we're gonna click on this job,  SRSS and Power BI Developer.  Taking a look at the right hand side of the job,  we can see that this client has 22 reviews  and 4.98 average stars which is very good.  So let's scroll down and take a look at some specifics.  Okay, so here's the client history,  let's look at what freelancers are saying, awesome client,  great to work with, prompt communication,  clear in explaining requirements, wonderful experience,  wonderful experience, five stars, wonderful experience.  Again, tons of five stars.  Awesome client, always available, great working with them.  A couple of bad ones,  but you can see they also left the freelancer bad reviews.  So here's a great example of when you probably want to look  at more than one review.  Three stars or less like this one  is definitely a bad review,  but we can also see that they left the freelancer  a pretty low review.  If you take a look at all their other jobs,  and they have all these five stars,  great reviews from freelancers.  Then odds are, the reason why this Freelancer  gave them a bad review, was because they didn't deliver,  and they knew that they were gonna receive a poor review.  So that's something you might want to look at as well,  but taking a look at all the other reviews,  amazing work ethics, clear communication.  There's so many great reviews about this client,  they would be a great one to work with, in my opinion.  So just like Upwork clients are gonna be  looking at your profile to see what other Upwork clients  are saying about you, and what feedback they're giving you,  you need to be looking at the same thing  on the Upwork clients jobs as well.  You definitely want to be  in a great working relationship with Upwork clients.  I have some of the same clients that I've had  since I started on Upwork.  I have a lot of long term work from them.  Those are the type of jobs that you want,  they're gonna make you a lot of money,  you're gonna have a lot of trust in each other.  So make sure you're looking at the reviews  of the Upwork clients to make sure  you're setting yourself up to work with someone  that's gonna be great, and someone long term.  Step number eight, check hours per week, if hourly,  and also check the project length.  Before submitting a job proposal,  you need to ask yourself this question.  Do you have the availability  to accommodate the client's needs?  Now a lot of jobs are gonna say, hours to be determined.  However, there are a lot of clients  that specify a certain amount of hours,  such as more than 30, less than 30,  so you need to be able to make sure  that your schedule is going to accommodate that  and fit that type of requirement.  Then also for project length,  make sure that your schedule, your availability,  is going to accommodate the length to the project.  So if a client has a project length listed  as one to three months,  you need to make sure that for the next one to three months,  you're gonna be able to work on that project,  and I don't mean that you can't do anything else  besides work on this project  for the next one to three months.  It means that for the next one to three months,  depending on the hours, depending on the scope,  all the deliverables that you have to do for the job.  You need to make sure that for the next one to three months,  you're gonna be able to fit those into your schedule.  Now let's go ahead and take a look  at a specific example of where you can view these things at  when you're looking at Upwork jobs.  Okay, so let's go ahead and take a look at a specific job.  So scrolling down let's click on this one.  So here we can see that this job  is estimated to have more than 30 hours per week.  So at 30 hours per week,  can you fit that into your schedule?  Do you have 30 hours a week in your schedule  to free up for this job.  Then also the project length, right beside of it,  more than six months.  So for the next six months,  is this a job that you can keep working on?  Do you have 30 hours per week for more than six months  that you can dedicate to a new job?  If you do great,  you can check this one off on your checklist.  If not, then you probably should not bid on this job  because you're not gonna be able to accommodate  the requirements for hours and the length as well.  So be sure to check both the hour requirements  and the project length as well.  The last thing that you want to do  is win a job from a client,  start working on it,  not be able to fulfill the hour requirements,  and the project length as well.  It's gonna leave a dissatisfied client.  It's gonna give you a bad review,  and that's something that you really, really need to avoid.  Step number nine, check preferred qualifications.  Upwork clients set preferred qualifications  to limit and filter down to the specific freelancers  and talent that they're looking for to fill their job.  Now if you go to submit a proposal,  there's gonna be a red icon on the preferred qualifications  if you don't meet those.  You need to take a look at this, because you probably  shouldn't be submitting a proposal on a job  that you don't meet the requirements for.  Upwork clients list those for a reason  because we're looking for specific talent,  specific freelancers.  If you don't meet those requirements,  and you still bid on it any way,  you're basically throwing your connects away.  Let's take a look at a specific example  of what I'm talking about.  So again, we're gonna open up the same job  that we just looked at a moment ago.  Now scrolling down to where the activity section is,  we're gonna see preferred qualifications.  So preferred qualifications talent type, independent,  so this means that they want an independent Freelancer  not an agency.  Job success score has to be at least 90% or higher,  English level has to be at least conversational.  Upwork hours, so this is how many  hours you've worked on Upwork.  They want someone that's at least worked 500 hours.  Now if you don't meet these requirements,  let's say you had a job success score of, like, 80%,  I would not bid on this job  because they're probably not gonna give you a chance.  Now, for instance, let's say that you don't have 500 hours  worked on Upwork, but you had somewhere  between 300 to 400.  If you met all the other qualifications except for hours  but you were really close on hours,  then you could consider still submitting a proposal  for this job because you were really close,  and they may still give you a chance,  because you're really close on the hour requirement,  and you checked off on everything else.  Step number 10, check the bid range.  Now for bid range, What I'm talking about  is the high, the average, and the low rates  that freelancers are bidding on the job.  Now let's go ahead and take a look  at a specific example of what I'm talking about.  So again, same job example,  we're gonna go ahead and click on it.  And now if we scroll down, we can see the bid range.  So the high bid range on this job is $61 an hour,  the average is $27.90 cents an hour,  and the low is $15 an hour.  So you can see on average freelancers are bidding  around $30 an hour for this job.  So the next step to check in combination with the bid range  is the skill level.  So this client is looking for intermediate,  so they're looking for a mix of experience and value.  So bidding $61 an hour or higher on this job,  is probably too high and not gonna give you a chance  to be considered, because it's higher  than the rate that they're actually looking for.  So for intermediate skill level,  looking for experience and value,  they don't really have any history  where I can look at what they've paid in the past  for similar intermediate skill level jobs.  Since they don't have that history,  what I would do is I would bid  somewhere between $27 an hour,  or maybe $25 an hour and $30 an hour.  If you hit that range,  you're probably gonna be setting yourself up pretty well.  Again, this is an intermediate level job.  This isn't expert.  If this job were an expert level job,  you better believe I wd be bidding a lot higher.  My hourly rate now is $100 an hour.  That's pretty much what I do for everything  unless it's fixed price.  So, if you want higher hourly rates,  it obviously ties to the skill level,  and now for a bonus tip.  Once you go through the checklist,  you're looking at a specific job,  you start checking everything off,  everything checks off,  and you're ready to submit a proposal.  The first one to two sentences of your proposal  is what the client is gonna see first.  So when an Upwork client has a huge list of proposals  from freelancers, your first one to two sentences  of your job proposal is what they're gonna see,  and we're gonna take a look at that right now.  I logged into my personal Upwork client account  that I use, that I've hired freelancers on,  we're gonna go in and we're gonna take a look  at a proposal and see the first  one or two sentences of that proposal.  So now we're logged into my Upwork employer account.  This is a job I created for my YouTube video editing  when I was looking for a video editor.  I obviously hired Alex, who's editing this video right now.  The guy was amazing.  I talk about him in a lot of my videos.  Anyway, this is his job proposal.  Let's go ahead and take a look at that real quick.  Okay, so here's the first one to two sentences.  Look at his cover letter and his job proposal.  Hello, I'm a professional video editor  and motion graphics artist in Los Angeles,  and your posts jumped out at me.  Ideas for your channel and be yourself,  there's no one on earth like you.  So his first one to two sentences  were very appealing to me and they grabbed my attention.  He briefly described that he's a video editor  and motion graphics artist,  what I was exactly looking for,  also saying that my post jumped out at him,  and then not only that,  but he offered ideas for my channel right from the start.  So when you're orchestrating your job proposal  and your cover letter, and you're saying things like,  Hi, my name is Josh Burns.  I have this many years of experience doing this,  blah, blah, blah, blah,  that's probably gonna get skipped over.  It's not jumping out at them obviously.  You need to be thinking in a way  to get the client to take action.  Write your first one or two sentences  to get them to take action, to jump off the webpage at them,  get them to take action and get them  to look more into you as a freelancer.  So before you submit a job proposal on Upwork,  make sure that you're going through the steps,  go to the description in this video,  download my checklist, go through it each time as well.  Not only will the steps help you save connects,  and that's very important now with the policy change.  What it's also gonna do, it's gonna help you  submit the right job proposals for the right jobs.  It's gonna give you the best chance to win,  to win jobs over other freelancers,  to get those long term clients  that you're gonna make a lot of money on.  If you're not getting jobs, don't look outward.  Don't look at Upwork and be like,  well I just couldn't get any jobs there.  it's too hard to get jobs there.  Don't look outward like that.  There's so many freelancers on Upwork,  who have made so much money,  I've personally made over $400,000 on Upwork,  and I'm on pace to break $500,000 this year.  There's so many other freelancers  who have made more than me.  All this stuff is public.  You can go search for freelancers and view it yourself.  I've seen freelancers who have made $600,000 plus,  a million dollars plus,  there's so many successful freelancers on the Upwork.  So what do I do when things aren't going well for me,  I look inward, what am I doing wrong?  What could I do better?  What can I change to give myself a better chance  to win jobs and beat out other freelancers?  You have to look inward.  If you keep looking outward, you're never gonna improve.  You're always gonna be looking for something that's wrong,  some type of excuse that you can give yourself  for why you're not winning, and why you're not getting jobs,  and when you're looking for excuses,  you're looking outward at all the external forces,  you're gonna be giving half-assed effort  and not hitting your full potential.  I don't know about you, but I'm not okay  with not giving it my all,  with not trying to reach my full potential.  I am not okay with leaving things on the table  that later on in my life, I'm gonna look back on  and be like, you know what,  I wish I would have went a little bit harder.  I wish I would have grinded a little bit harder.  I wish I would have taken more risk.  I'm not okay with that.  Make sure that you keep leaving comments  with your success stories as well.  I love hearing those,  and I want to keep hearing about those.  Take a look at Sylvio's right now.  He has been absolutely killing it on Upwork as a freelancer.  He's watched my videos, implemented my tips,  and now he's reaping all the benefits from it.  Keep going, man and don't let up.  So if you're struggling to get jobs,  you're struggling with your job proposals,  you're struggling on Upwork in general  as a freelancer look inward.  What can you do?  What can you change?  Look inward at yourself,  that is gonna give you the best results.  When you start improving on yourself, each and every day,  you keep making progress, you keep getting better,  the results will come and you're gonna make more money,  and more money, and more money, as a freelancer,  and ultimately lead you wherever you want to go.  Also be sure to check out the description box's video.  I recently created a Patreon account for the channel,  not only will it allow you guys to support the channel,  and allow me to make more content,  and get over the one video a week  that I've been doing for you,  to get that up to two videos,  or even more than that as well,  but what it also provides you with,  are different rewards per tier.  Now these tiers include things like poll based voting  on future content, so you'll get the voice your opinion  on the content that I'm creating for you.  They also have rewards like a monthly 10 minute  call with me to discuss any freelancing questions  that you have, personal development, and channel content.  I literally get so many DMs about freelancing questions,  that I can't reply to all of them.  So this is a way for you guys be able  to support the channel,  and for me to answer any questions that you have.  Then even higher level tiers  are gonna include things  like monthly Google Hangout sessions.  We're gonna have a group hangout session  to focus on training, and discussion around freelancing,  and then channel content as well.  Then the highest level includes a monthly one-on-one  Google Hangout session with me,  where we will cover a predefined topic,  we can go through your freelance profile, your portfolio,  we will go over any freelancing questions  that you have to get you set up for success.  So again, be sure to check out the description box's video  for the Josh Burn's Tech Patreon.  Become a supporter of the channel.  I greatly, greatly appreciate it.  I love making content for you guys,  and I want to dedicate more of myself to doing that.  I appreciate it, thank you.  On this end screen, I recommend checking out these videos,  and be sure to hit that round subscribe button  for weekly tag videos, and hit that notification bell,  so you don't miss anything.  Thank you for watching and until next time, yeah.  ♪ All I've got is tension man ♪  ♪ Costs like a lot of buzz ♪  ♪ Been stressing out I just can't ♪  ♪ Got a a lot ♪  