Chapter 3
Drawing conclusions from data need an understanding of the "data’s origination". (asal data)
For instance, it is often assumed that the data constitute a "random sample" from some population. 
To understand exactly what this means and what its consequences are for relating properties of the sample data to properties of the entire population, it is necessary to have some understanding of probability, and that is the subject of Chapter 3. This chapter introduces the 
1. idea of a probability experiment, 
2. explains the concept of the probability of an event, and 
3. presents the axioms of probability.
----
frequency interpretation vs subjective interpretation
frequency interpretation
In the frequency interpretation, the probability of a given outcome of an experiment is considered as being a "property" of that outcome. 
nilai dari probabilitas ada nya oil ditentukan by continual repetition of the experiment — the probability of the outcome will then be observable as being the proportion of the experiments that result in the outcome. 
---
continual_repetition_of_the_experiment = 10 times, 100 times ,1M times
proporsi_experiments = observable_oil / (observable_oil + unobservable_oil)
----
This is the interpretation of probability that is most prevalent among scientists.
--
Pendapat kedua subjective interpration of probability, based on someone belief, dipakai di filosofi dan decision maker ekonomi.
--
Regardless of which interpretation one gives to probability, however, there is a consensus 
the mathematics of probability (frequency) ==the mathematics of probability (subjective)
----
i think 
probability rain tommorow = 3/10 
probability cloudy without any rain = 2/10
then
probability cloudy or rainy = 5/10 
independently of your individual interpretation of the concept of probability (frequency or subjective). 
--
Apa Rule atau aksioma teori probabilitas yang disajikan pada chapter ini ?
---
As a preliminary to this, however, we need to study the concept of the sample space and the events of an experiment. 
--
SAMPLE SPACE AND EVENTS
ruang sample dan kejadian
sample itu dari statistic
event itu dari probability
outcome experiment sifatnya random tapi (biasanya) kita sudah mengetahui possible outcome nya (lemparan koin,dadu etc), experiment refactoring (improving or not affect quality).
---
saya hanya melakkan eksperimen refactoring 29 kali pada satu software.
Bagaimana menyatakan refactoring dilakukan 29 kali?
untuk menghilangkan 1 smell, butuh berapa kali refactoring?
---




