Vicenzo Ferme
5.2 Code Smells Metrics Thresholds Derivation
5.2.1 Code Smells Metrics Thresholds Definition
5.2.2 Common Fraction Thresholds
5.2.3 Benchmark-Based Thresholds (BBT)
step of BBT
1. Metrics computation
2. Metrics Aggregated Distribution Analysis
3. Metrics Thresholds Derivation
---
We develop a method to derive metrics thresholds for code smells
detection. 
We distinguish two ways of computing thresholds based on the characteristics of the metric under analysis:
a. Common Fraction Thresholds (or CFT, see Section 5.2.2);
b. Benchmark-Based Thresholds (or BBT, see Section 5.2.3).

The difference is due to the existence of some metrics, 
1. like TCC, that are defined in terms of normalized ratio with a well-defined semantics, and 
2. other metrics (e.g., LOC) having their values on an interval of the extended real number line (i.e., â„ or [âˆ’âˆ, +âˆ]) or of the natural number line (i.e.,â„•0).

The rest of this chapter is organized as follows: 
in Section 5.2.1 we define the thresholds we derive for code smells detection; 
in Section 5.2.2 we describe the approach to derive CFT thresholds, 
in Section 5.2.3 we introduce our method to derive thresholds (BBT) from a benchmark of software system; 
in Section 5.2.4 we discuss some consideration an threats to validity of the proposed BBT derivation method.

5.2.1 Code Smells Metrics Thresholds Definition
Code smells define some properties of software design that should
be identified in the system to capture potential problems. The defined properties are often in the form of "identify classes that have LOW cohesion" or "identify methods that have a VERY-HIGH complexity". We want to derive
thresholds in a way that they can be semantically mapped to these informal
requirements, to find out what LOW cohesion or VERY-HIGH complexity
means in terms of the metrics we use to measure cohesion and complexity
of the software system.
With this need in mind, we compute, for each metric, a set of five thresholds
that identifies five points on the metrics distribution, for BBTs, and five
points among common fractions for CFTs.

We define a threshold using three attributes:
ï‚· a name or label;
ï‚· a corresponding percentile (for BBT), or a corresponding common fraction (for CFT);
ï‚· a type.

We use the name to refer to a threshold with a semantic meaning. 
The names we use for the five thresholds are: 
VERY-LOW, LOW, MEAN, HIGH, VERY-HIGH. VERY-LOW represents the lowest threshold, while VERY-HIGH the highest one. 

We call VERY-LOW and VERY-HIGH extreme thresholds.
The corresponding percentile, or ğ‘‡â„ğ‘ƒğ‘œğ‘–ğ‘›ğ‘¡, is the point on the reference set
of points (i.e., the percentiles of the metrics distribution) representing where
to find the value for the given threshold (i.e., ğ‘‡â„ğ‘‰ğ‘ğ‘™ğ‘¢ğ‘’).
The corresponding common fraction is the ğ‘‡â„ğ‘ƒğ‘œğ‘–ğ‘›ğ‘¡ on the reference set of
common fractions, that represents where to find the value for CFTs (i.e.,
ğ‘‡â„ğ‘‰ğ‘ğ‘™ğ‘¢ğ‘’).
Each threshold is mapped to a value by the function ğ‘‡â„ğ‘‰ğ‘ğ‘™ğ‘¢ğ‘’ =
ğ‘£ğ‘ğ‘™ğ‘¢ğ‘’ğ‘‚ğ‘“(ğ‘‡â„ğ‘ƒğ‘œğ‘–ğ‘›ğ‘¡). ğ‘‡â„ğ‘‰ğ‘ğ‘™ğ‘¢ğ‘’ is the threshold used for comparing other values of the metric.
As part of our code smells detection approach, described in Chapter 6, we
offer to the user the possibility of hardening or softening thresholds values.
Hardening or softening threshold values is useful because of the difficulty
to generalize the obtained thresholds to all the possible software systems;
we offer to the user the possibility of moving thresholds to achieve more or
less strict constraints.
The type allows us to define different typologies of thresholds for each
name/label, based on the selection we do in these sense. 

We define three possible types of thresholds:
ï‚· Default: the default selection we offer to the user;
ï‚· Harden: the set of thresholds we offer to the user when he wants to
try to reduce the number of entities evaluated as affected by a code
smell 
ï‚· Soften: the set of thresholds we offer to the user when he wants to
try to raise the number of entities evaluated as affected by a code
smell.
When we set Harden and Soften, we have to refer to the characteristics of
the metric and to the property of the system we want to measure, to understand if they have a direct or inverse correlation. To select properly the
threshold we refer always to the definition we give in Appendix B2, in particularly to the "Worse" attribute, and to the detection strategies we define
for each code smell in Chapter 6.
As for example, consider the LOC metric and a generic ğ‘‡â„ğ‘‰ğ‘ğ‘™ğ‘¢ğ‘’ corresponding to the HIGH threshold. If we want to capture "class with a HIGH number
of lines of code", we can compare LOC and ğ‘‡â„ğ‘‰ğ‘ğ‘™ğ‘¢ğ‘’ using: ğ¿ğ‘‚ğ¶ â‰¥
ğ‘£ğ‘ğ‘™ğ‘¢ğ‘’ğ‘‚ğ‘“(HIGH). Hardening the threshold in this situation means that we
have to select a greater ğ‘‡â„ğ‘‰ğ‘ğ‘™ğ‘¢ğ‘’ for the HIGH threshold, so that the number
of entities that exceeds the threshold can be reduced. Conversely, if we want
to capture "class with a LOW number of lines of code", we can compare
LOC to the ğ‘‡â„ğ‘‰ğ‘ğ‘™ğ‘¢ğ‘’ corresponding to the LOW threshold: ğ¿ğ‘‚ğ¶ â‰¤
ğ‘£ğ‘ğ‘™ğ‘¢ğ‘’ğ‘‚ğ‘“(ğ¿ğ‘‚ğ‘Š). Here hardening the threshold means that we have to select
a lower ğ‘‡â„ğ‘‰ğ‘ğ‘™ğ‘¢ğ‘’ for the LOW threshold, so that the number of entities that
exceeds the threshold can be reduced.
In Sections 5.2.2 and 5.2.3, we discuss in details the attributes of the thresholds we defined, based on the way we derive thresholds (i.e., Benchmark -
Based Thresholds or Common Fraction Thresholds).

5.2.2 Common Fraction Thresholds
Some metrics are defined as normalized ratio with well-defined semantics. Consider for example the Tight Class Cohesion (TCC) metric, defined as:
"TCC is the normalized ratio between the number of methods directly connected with other methods through an instance variable and the total number of possible connections between methods"
The higher the TCC, the more cohesive the class. For this type of metrics,
when we think at a LOW value it is common to refer to values lower than
or equal than 1â„3 that in the case of TCC means that utmost 1â„3 of the
possible method-method connection of the class is present. Fractions like
1â„3 or 1â„2 are defined as common fraction by Lanza et al. [75]. We use
metrics like TCC in some of the detection strategies we define in Chapter 6
for code smells detection: TCC for God Class, Weight Of A Class (WOC),
and TCC for Data Class and Coupling Dispersion (CDISP) for Dispersed
Coupling11. Because all these metrics are defined as a normalized ratio in
the [0,1] interval and we use common fractions, the ğ‘‡â„ğ‘ƒğ‘œğ‘–ğ‘›ğ‘¡, and consequently the ğ‘‡â„ğ‘‰ğ‘ğ‘™ğ‘¢ğ‘’, we define are the same for all the metrics. Table 11
shows the detailed description for all the type of thresholds we define. Obviously, when we refer to Hardened and Softened thresholds we cannot directly use common fractions as defined by Lanza et al. [75]. Anyway, as we
always rely on fractions in the same range, the technique is consistent.
The way we select Hardened and Softened thresholds consists in moving
the MEAN ThPoint by 1â„10 to the right or to the left and then LOW and
HIGH ThPoint by 1â„20 in the same direction.
The VERY-LOW and VERY-HIGH thresholds points and values are the
same for all types because they are extreme threshold we use as reference
points to some part of our detection approach (e.g., harmfulness computation, described in Section 6.2.2), but we do not use them for code smells
detection strategies.

5.2.3 Benchmark-Based Thresholds (BBT)
The most sensible part of our method is the one for BenchmarkBased Thresholds derivation. Most of the metrics we define in Chapter 4
have as range of possible values an interval of the extended real line (i.e.,
â„ or [âˆ’âˆ, +âˆ]) or of the natural number line (i.e., â„•0), most of the times
from zero on. For this reason, we define a method to derive thresholds, to
be used in the code smells detection context, from a dataset of software
systems used as benchmark. The starting point of our method is the one
proposed by Alves et al. in [3], which follows three core requirements: datadriven, robust and pragmatic.
We fully agree with these requirements, so we decided to follow these requirements, to develop a method for computing metrics thresholds using a
benchmark of systems. We cannot follow directly the method proposed by
Alves et al. in [3] because the proposed method is suited for system maintainability evaluation, and assumes the system to be completely developed.
In the context of code smells detection, we have to identify code smells also
in a system that does not exist in all its parts, hence, for example, we cannot
use measures at system level (e.g., the LOC of system).
The method we propose allows us to compute in an automated way thresholds that are customized based on the code smell for which we have to use
the metric we are deriving the threshold to. We add some requirements to
the method proposed by Alves et al., because each code smell affects specific types of entities (e.g., only public methods), and we want to gather
knowledge to compute thresholds only from the entities that can be a code
smell. We develop a method that is as automatic as possible, because we
need to add more systems to the benchmark during time to gather more knowledge. Hence, we need a method that is scalable and requires a slight
manual effort for deriving thresholds. 
Figure 13 shows the main steps of the method we propose and a description of the output of each step.

..
conclusion
We develop a method to derive thresholds for two types of software design metrics:
ï‚· defined as normalized ratio in [0,1];
ï‚· defined in â„ or â„•^0.

For the first type of metrics we select thresholds according to common fractions (e.g., 1â„2), that identify a point in the [0,1] interval with a well-defined
semantic, with respect to the rationale that defines the metric. We use this
technique for metrics like Tight Class Cohesion (TCC), that is defined as
"the normalized ratio between the number of methods directly connected
with other methods through an instance variable and the total number of
possible connections between methods" [41]. When we think at LOW values
for this metric, we refer to values lower or equal than 1â„3 fraction, which,
in the case of TCC, means utmost 1â„3 of the possible method-method connections of the class are present.

For the second type of metrics, whose distributions are often heavily
skewed, we propose an automatic method to derive thresholds. Starting from
metric values computed on a benchmark of software systems, it determines
thresholds that (i) are customized based on the code smell for which we use
the metric, (ii) respects the statistical properties of the metric, such as its
distribution, and (iii) helps focusing on the most interesting metric values.
Both the methods allow us to obtain valid thresholds for a wide range of
different metrics. We use these thresholds in Chapter 6, when we define
code smells detection strategies and information related to the presence of
code smell in the system.