some question that i can't answer?
= thpoint vs thvalue? apakah mereka penting?
	= keyword thpoint dimana saja?
	= keyword thvalue dimana saja?

= kalau CINT gimana cara hitung thPoint, thValue?
= kalau CDISP gimana cara hitung thPoint, thValue?
= kalau operator buat deteksi smell nya AND , bgmn cara untuk mendapatkan index harmfulness nya , dikalikan kah CINT dan CDISP? 
= 

harmfulness computation details
keyword
statistical distribution , threshold , detection strategy , metric, Absolute comparator , sisi manakah , harmfulness starting point , 
---------------

As discussed in the previous section, a code smell is captured using a dedicated detection strategy, composed by one or more logical condition made by: 
1. a metric (e.g. LOC) , 
2. an Absolute Comparator (e.g. >), and 
3. a threshold (e.g. HIGH)
example : LOC > HIGH

Given the metric, if its value exceeds the threshold value(see footnote :19), we refer to its statistical distribution to compute the metric values where to place the harmfulness level points.
--------
footnote 19 
catatan kaki
19. There can be some of the metrics in the detection strategy that do not exceed the threshold, for example when we use the OR logical operator to compose logical condition.
---
loopingku biar paham wkwk
There can be some of the metrics in the detection strategy that do not exceed the threshold
There can be some of the metrics in the detection strategy 
that 
do not exceed the threshold
for example 
when we use the OR logical operator to compose logical condition
jika strategi deteksi use OR, maka tidak semua metrik perlu melebih threshold
-------------
Distribusi statistik dari metrik jadi basis untuk penentuan harmfulness level points.
-------------
The threshold defines the value where to start to place the harmfulness level points, and the Absolute Comparator (i.e., >, ≥, < or ≤) defines the side of the metric distribution where to place the points (i.e., the left side or the right side of the distribution starting from the threshold).
--
threshold menentukan value dimanakan start untuk penempatan harmfulness level points dan juga
the Absolute comparator menentukan di sisi mana penempatan harmfulness point, dikiri atau dikanan dari harmfulness starting point kah?
-----

