God, then, becomes the friend of and cooperates with a person who has "discovered" Him. Yet, God's friendship may not be presumed at any point by either any individual or any community, even though the Qur’ān speaks of God's promises to individuals and communities. One must exercise taqwā, meaning that if one has the proper perception, then one must be constantly "on one's guard" (which is the literal meaning of taqwā). One cannot take God for granted, since no individual or community in the world can at any time appropriate Truth; in fact, the very claim, whether made by an individual or a community for itself or by a community on behalf of its real or putative founder, amounts to a confession of lack of taqwā. Muħammad (PBUH), the bearer of the Qur’ānic Revelation, is told in the Qur’ān that God can cut off Revelation from him and "seal your heart" (17.al-Isrā’:86; 42.ash-Shūrā:24). While speaking of the Christian belief in the divinity of Jesus, the Qur’ān says, "Who is to prevent God if He wished to destroy Jesus son of Mary and his mother and whoever lives on the earth for to God belongs the rule of the heavens and the earth" (5.al-Mā’idah:17). We now come back to the doctrine of the power of God. This power issues forth in the merciful creativity of God, in terms of "measuring" things, producing them "according to a certain order or measure," not haphazardly or blindly. We shall discuss this "measuring" and "ordering" in Chapter IV, but it should be noted here that in Arabic the term for both power and measuring out is qadar and the Qur’ān uses qadar in both senses. In pre-Islamic Arabia, this term, more often in its plural form aqdār, was used to mean "Fate," a blind force that "measured out" or predetermined matters that were beyond man's control, in particular his birth, the sources of his sustenance, and his death. It was a pessimistic belief, but it was not a belief in Fate's predetermination of all human acts. The Qur’ān took over this term but changed the concept of a blind and inexorable Fate into that of an all-powerful, purposeful, and merciful God. This all-powerful God, through His merciful creativity, "measures out" everything, bestowing upon everything the range of its potentialities, its laws of behavior, in sum, its character.  This measuring on the one hand ensures the orderliness of nature and on the other expresses the most fundamental, unbridgeable difference between the nature of God and the nature of man: the Creator's measuring implies an infinitude wherein no measured creature—no matter how great its powers and potentialities (as in the case of man)—may literally share. 

Tuhan, kemudian, menjadi sahabat dan bekerja sama dengan orang yang telah "menemukan" Dia. Namun, persahabatan Tuhan tidak boleh dianggap oleh individu atau komunitas mana pun, meskipun Al-Qur'an berbicara tentang janji-janji Tuhan kepada individu dan komunitas. Seseorang harus menjalankan taqwā, artinya jika seseorang memiliki persepsi yang tepat, maka seseorang harus terus menerus "berjaga-jaga" (yang merupakan arti literal dari taqwā). Seseorang tidak dapat menerima begitu saja Tuhan, karena tidak ada individu atau komunitas di dunia ini yang dapat setiap saat menerima Kebenaran; pada kenyataannya, klaim itu sendiri, baik yang dibuat oleh individu atau komunitas untuk dirinya sendiri atau oleh komunitas atas nama pendirinya yang sebenarnya atau yang diduga, sama dengan pengakuan kurangnya taqwā. Muhammad (SAW), pembawa wahyu Al-Qur'an, diberitahu dalam Al-Qur'an bahwa Tuhan dapat memotong Wahyu darinya dan "menutup hatimu" (17. al-Isrā ': 86; 42. as-Shūrā : 24). Ketika berbicara tentang kepercayaan Kristen pada keilahian Yesus, Al-Qur'an mengatakan, "Siapa yang mencegah Tuhan jika Dia ingin menghancurkan Yesus putra Maryam dan ibunya dan siapa pun yang hidup di bumi karena milik Tuhan adalah aturan alam semesta. langit dan bumi "(5. al-Mā'idah: 17). Sekarang kita kembali ke doktrin kuasa Tuhan. Kuasa ini muncul dalam kreativitas Tuhan yang penuh belas kasih, dalam istilah "mengukur" sesuatu, memproduksinya "menurut urutan atau ukuran tertentu," tidak secara sembarangan atau membabi buta. Kita akan membahas "pengukuran" dan "pengaturan" ini dalam Bab IV, tetapi perlu dicatat di sini bahwa dalam bahasa Arab istilah untuk kekuatan dan pengukuran adalah qadar dan Al-Qur'an menggunakan qadar dalam kedua pengertiannya. Di Arab pra-Islam, istilah ini, lebih sering dalam bentuk jamak aqdār, digunakan untuk mengartikan "Takdir", suatu kekuatan buta yang "mengukur" atau menentukan hal-hal yang berada di luar kendali manusia, khususnya kelahirannya, sumber-sumber rezeki, dan kematiannya. Itu adalah keyakinan yang pesimistis, tapi itu bukan keyakinan pada Takdir yang telah ditentukan sebelumnya atas semua tindakan manusia. Al-Qur'an mengambil alih istilah ini tetapi mengubah konsep Takdir yang buta dan tak terhindarkan menjadi Tuhan yang maha kuasa, memiliki tujuan, dan penyayang. Tuhan Yang Mahakuasa ini, melalui kreativitas-Nya yang penuh belas kasihan, "mengukur" segala sesuatu, menganugerahkan kepada segala sesuatu kisaran potensialnya, hukum perilakunya, singkatnya, karakternya. Pengukuran ini di satu sisi memastikan keteraturan alam dan di sisi lain mengungkapkan perbedaan yang paling mendasar dan tidak dapat dijembatani antara sifat Tuhan dan hakikat manusia: Pengukuran Sang Pencipta menyiratkan ketidakterbatasan di mana tidak ada makhluk yang diukur — tidak peduli seberapa besar kekuatannya dan potensi (seperti dalam kasus manusia) —dapat secara harfiah berbagi.


It is precisely this belief in such sharing that is categorically denied by the Qur’ānic doctrine of shirk or "participation in Godhead." Let us make the concept of this measuring more precise: God, not anyone else, has created the laws by which nature works. This does not mean that man cannot discover those laws and apply them for the good of man, for this is what a farmer or a scientist does. The Qur’ān invites man to discover the laws of nature and exploit it for human benefit. God has made certain laws whereby a sperm fertilizes a female egg and, after due process, a baby matures in the mother's womb; and the Qur’ān comments, "So We determined [these laws] and how fine measurers We are" (77.al-Mursalāt:23). This in itself does not mean that man cannot discover the laws of the process whereby a sperm and an egg meet and then, at a certain temperature and with certain materials and other conditions, produce a perfected baby; and then apply those laws to produce a baby in a tube, for example. Many people think that this is "vying with" God and trying to interfere in His work and share His divinity, but the real worry is not that man is trying to displace nature or imitate God, for man is encouraged to do so by the Qur’ān. The fear, on the contrary, is that man may "vie with" the devil to produce distortions of nature and thus violate moral law. If the Qur’ān expresses power and measuring through the same term, qadar, it uses another term, amr ("command"), in close association with "measuring" and, so far as nature is concerned, to mean the same thing: the laws of nature express the Command of God. But nature does not and cannot disobey God's commands and cannot violate natural laws. Hence the entirety of nature is called muslim by the Qur’ān, for it surrenders itself to and obeys the command of God: "Do they, then, seek an obedience [or religion] other than that to God, while it is to Him that everyone [and everything] in the heavens and the earth submits?" (3.Āli ‘Imrān:83) "The seven heavens and the earth and whatever is therein sing the glories of God" (17.al-Isrā’:44; also 57.al-Ħadeed:1; 59.al-Ħashr:1; 61.aş-Şaff:1; 13.ar-Ra‘d:15; 16.an-Naħl:49; 22.alĦajj:18; 55.ar-Raħmān:6; 7.al-A‘rāf:206; 21.al-Anbiyā’:19).  From the concept of qādir, the powerful and the measurer, there necessarily follows that of āmir, the Commander. Just as everything is under His "measurement" (maqdūr), so is everything under His Command (ma’mūr). The fundamental difference between man and nature is that whereas natural command disallows disobedience, commands to man presuppose a choice and free volition on his part. Hence what is natural command in nature becomes moral command in man. This gives man a unique position in the order of creation; at the same time it charges him with a unique responsibility which he can discharge only through taqwā. Hence man is called upon to serve God alone and abandon all false gods, including his own desires and the wishful whisperings of his soul, for all these bar him from an objective perception of the whole reality, narrow his vision, and fragment his being. The following categorical declarations are typical of the very frequent Qur’ānic statements on the subject: 

Justru keyakinan dalam berbagi semacam itu yang secara tegas disangkal oleh doktrin syirik Al-Qur'an atau "partisipasi dalam Ketuhanan." Mari kita buat konsep pengukuran ini lebih tepat: Tuhan, bukan siapa pun, telah menciptakan hukum yang dengannya alam bekerja. Ini tidak berarti bahwa manusia tidak dapat menemukan hukum-hukum itu dan menerapkannya untuk kebaikan manusia, karena inilah yang dilakukan oleh seorang petani atau ilmuwan. Al-Qur'an mengajak manusia untuk menemukan hukum alam dan memanfaatkannya untuk kepentingan manusia. Tuhan telah membuat hukum-hukum tertentu di mana sperma membuahi sel telur wanita dan, setelah melalui proses yang seharusnya, seorang bayi menjadi dewasa di dalam rahim ibunya; dan Al-Qur'an berkomentar, "Jadi Kami menetapkan [hukum-hukum ini] dan seberapa baik ukuran Kami" (77.al-Mursalāt: 23). Ini sendiri tidak berarti bahwa manusia tidak dapat menemukan hukum-hukum proses di mana sperma dan sel telur bertemu dan kemudian, pada suhu tertentu dan dengan bahan dan kondisi tertentu, menghasilkan bayi yang sempurna; dan kemudian menerapkan hukum tersebut untuk menghasilkan bayi dalam tabung, misalnya. Banyak orang berpikir bahwa ini adalah "berlomba-lomba dengan" Tuhan dan mencoba untuk ikut campur dalam pekerjaan-Nya dan berbagi keilahian-Nya, tetapi kekhawatiran sebenarnya bukanlah bahwa manusia sedang mencoba untuk menggantikan alam atau meniru Tuhan, karena manusia didorong untuk melakukannya oleh Al-Qur'an. 'sebuah. Ketakutan, sebaliknya, adalah bahwa manusia mungkin "bersaing dengan" iblis untuk menghasilkan distorsi alam dan dengan demikian melanggar hukum moral. Jika Al-Qur'an mengungkapkan kekuatan dan pengukuran melalui istilah yang sama, qadar, ia menggunakan istilah lain, amr ("perintah"), dalam kaitannya dengan "mengukur" dan, sejauh menyangkut alam, berarti hal yang sama: hukum alam mengungkapkan Perintah Tuhan. Tetapi alam tidak dan tidak dapat melanggar perintah Tuhan dan tidak dapat melanggar hukum alam. Oleh karena itu, seluruh alam disebut Muslim oleh Al-Qur'an, karena ia berserah diri dan mematuhi perintah Tuhan: "Apakah mereka, kemudian, mencari ketaatan [atau agama] selain itu kepada Tuhan, sementara itu kepada-Nya? bahwa setiap orang [dan segala sesuatu] di langit dan di bumi tunduk? " (3.Āli 'Imrān: 83) "Tujuh langit dan bumi dan apapun yang ada di dalamnya menyanyikan kemuliaan Tuhan" (17. al-Isrā': 44; juga 57. al-Ħadeed: 1; 59.al-Ħashr : 1; 61.aş-Şaff: 1; 13.ar-Ra'd: 15; 16.an-Naħl: 49; 22. alĦajj: 18; 55.ar-Raħmān: 6; 7. al-A'rāf : 206; 21. al-Anbiyā ': 19). Dari konsep qādir, yang berkuasa dan pengukur, harus diikuti oleh āmir, Panglima. Sebagaimana segala sesuatu berada di bawah "ukuran"-Nya (maqdūr), demikian pula segala sesuatu di bawah Perintah-Nya (ma'mūr). Perbedaan mendasar antara manusia dan alam adalah bahwa sementara perintah alami melarang ketidaktaatan, perintah kepada manusia mengandaikan pilihan dan kemauan bebas di pihaknya. Oleh karena itu, perintah alamiah menjadi perintah moral dalam diri manusia. Ini memberi manusia posisi unik dalam tatanan penciptaan; pada saat yang sama ia menuntutnya dengan tanggung jawab unik yang hanya dapat ia lakukan melalui taqwā. Oleh karena itu, manusia dipanggil untuk melayani Tuhan sendirian dan meninggalkan semua dewa palsu, termasuk keinginannya sendiri dan bisikan jiwanya, karena semua ini menghalangi dia dari persepsi objektif tentang seluruh realitas, mempersempit penglihatannya, dan memecah-mecah keberadaannya. Deklarasi kategoris berikut adalah tipikal dari pernyataan Al-Qur'an yang sangat sering tentang subjek:
Say, O disbelievers! I serve not what you serve and you are not about to serve what I serve. Neither am I going to serve what you have been serving, nor are you willing  to serve what I serve. For you your obedience [or religion], for me, mine! (109.al-Kāfirūn:1-6) To Him belongs whatever is in the heavens and in the earth—He is the High, the Great. The heavens above them are apt to be rent asunder [because of the worship of others than God], while angels glorify the praises of their Lord. (42.ash-Shūrā:4-5) 

Say: Shall I take a protector-friend other than God, the Maker of the heavens and the earth, He Who feeds and is not fed? Say: I have been commanded to be the first to surrender [to God]. . . . Say: I fear, should I disobey my Lord, the punishment of a mighty day. (6.al-An‘ām:14, 15) The heavens are apt to split asunder and the earth is about to be cleft and the mountains about to go to pieces that they [the Christians, like the Meccan pagans] have called a son for the Merciful, while it does not behoove the Merciful to take a son. (19.Maryam:90-92) Say: God guides to the truth; is He who guides to the truth more deserving of being followed or he who cannot find the way unless he is guided to it—what is wrong with you? How do you judge? (10.Yūnus:35) Did you see the one who has taken his own desire to be his god? Can you be a guardian over him? (25.al-Furqān:43) O people! A parable is being cited, listen well to it. Those [gods] whom you call upon besides God can never create a fly, even if all of them came together to do so. 
And if a fly were to take away something from them, they can never get it back from it! Both the seeker and the sought are equally helpless. 


They have not estimated God rightly [in assigning partners to Him]—God is powerful, mighty. (22.al-Ħajj:73-74)  This, then, is the general picture of God that emerges from the Qur’ān. What shall we say about the frequent statements of so many Westerners, in some cases even made in the name of scholarship, that the God of the Qur’ān is a loveless, remote, capricious, and even tyrannical power which arbitrarily causes some people to go astray and others to come to guidance, creates some people for hell and others for paradise, without any rhyme or reason? Even the blind Fate of the pre-Islamic Arabs was not quite like this, let alone the creative, sustaining, merciful, and purposeful God of the Qur’ān. Further, the picture is utterly incompatible with the most fundamental outline of the doctrine of God described above. If the Western allegations are correct, they must square with this outline; otherwise, our outline, based on numerous verses of the Qur’ān, must be rejected as false. 

There is no doubt that the Qur’ān does make frequent statements to the effect that God leads aright whom He will and leads astray whom He will, or that God has "sealed up" some people's hearts to truth, etc. 

(2.al-Baqarah:7, 142, 213, 272; 14.Ibrāheem:4; 16.an-Naħl:93; 24.an-Nūr:35; 28.al-Qaşaş:56; 30.ar-Rūm:29; 35.Fāţir:8), although far more often it says that "God does not lead aright the unjust ones," "God does not guide aright the transgressors," "God guides aright those who listen, are sincere, fear God". 

(2.al-Baqarah:26, 258, 264; 3.Āli ‘Imrān:86; 5.al-Mā’idah:16, 51, 67, 108; 6.al-An‘ām:88, 144; 9.al-Tawbah:19, 24, 37, 80, 109; 12.Yūsuf:52; 13.ar-Ra‘d:27; 16.an-Naħl:37, 107; 28.al-Qaşaş:50; 39.az-Zumar:3; 40.Ghāfir:28; 42.ash-Shūrā:13; 46.al-Aħqāf:10; 61.aş-Şaff:5: "when they went crooked, God bent their hearts crooked" (61.aş-Şaff:7; 62.al-Jumu‘ah:5; 63.al-Munāfiqūn:6). This means that man does something to deserve guidance or misguidance. Nature and God are not two different factors; God is more of a dimension or meaning than an item among items. Similarly, with regard to man's actions and his destiny vis-à-vis God, God and man are not rivals therein—as the later Mu‘tazilite and Ash‘arite theologians thought, so that the former made man the sole agent and denied God's role totally in order to make men "completely responsible," while the latter denied any power to man in order to safeguard the "omnipotence of God." The Qur’ān is true to the realities of moral life, for it affirms both sides of the tension, as will become more clear in the next chapter. If this kind of analysis shows anything, it is that the Qur’ān must be so studied that its concrete unity will emerge in its fullness, and that to select certain verses from the Qur’ān to project a partial and subjective point of view may satisfy the subjective observer but it necessarily does violence to the Qur’ān itself and results in extremely dangerous abstractions. 


It is notorious how frequently Muslims themselves, let alone Westerners, have mutilated the Qur’ān by projecting their own points of view or that of their "schools" of thought; except that with so many Westerners both unconscious prejudice and deliberate distortion have played roles, as well as the study of verses of the Qur’ān in abstract isolation. The Qur’ān, as the Word of God, is as concrete as the Command or the Law of God—indeed, as God Himself—and represents the depth and breadth of life itself; it will refuse to be straight-jacketed by intellectual and cultural bias. Yet, we must keep clear of pantheism and relativism, the most attractive and powerful of all spiritual drugs. When we say that God is not an item among items, we certainly do not mean to suggest that God is everything or is in everything, even though His presence is all-pervasive. 


When we say that God is concrete and that He cannot be narrowed by interpretations or approaches that are intellectual and cultural abstractions, we certainly do not imply that if all these approaches are mechanically combined, the aggregate could represent the truth. On the point that God is not in things and that creation is other than God, the whole of the Qur’ān upholds this, but verses like "if We wished to take a sport, We could have done it by Ourselves" (21.al-Anbiyā’:17) make it absolutely clear that the creation is not some kind of an intra-God drama, although it is witnessed by God as His creation and it witnesses God as its Creator.  As for the point that all paths actually taken by man do not, put together, represent the truth about God, this is evidenced by 16.an-Naħl:9: "the only straight path goes to God, while others are deviant." 


This path is the full recognition of God as God, the path that is of sole interest and importance to man. All others are sectarian and divisive of mankind: Those people who have cut up their religion into sects, you have nothing to do with them [O Muħammad!]: their affair is up to God and He shall let them know what they have been doing. He who does one good thing, shall get back ten times of it in reward, while he who does one wrong, will not be requited except equal to it—and they shall not be wronged. Say [O Muħammad!]: My Lord has guided me to the straight path—an upright faith, the religion of Abraham the Ħanif [one who recognized the unity of religion rather than followed sects]—and he was not one who assigned partners to God. Say: My prayer and my piety, my life and my death are for God, the Lord of the World. There is no partner with Him. This is what I have been commanded and I am the first of those who surrender to God [I am the first of the muslims] (6.al-An‘ām:159-163).