NATURE

But if the Qur’ān has little to say about cosmogony, it makes frequent and repeated statements about nature and natural phenomena, though these statements   invariably relate nature to God or to man, or to both. Often they portray God's unlimited power and majesty and invite man to believe in Him, or depict His infinite mercy and require man to be grateful to Him. In both cases, nature's magnitude and utility for man, as well as the stability and regularity of natural phenomena, are stressed. If you sow seeds and nurture the saplings, you can expect to reap the harvest; otherwise not. If you build a ship and place it on the sea, and the winds are favorable, you may anticipate profitable trade; otherwise not. The working of natural causes, therefore, is inevitable and undeniable. Besides natural causation, however, there is another, more ultimate causation, bestowing upon natural processes in their entirety a significance and an intelligibility that natural processes viewed in themselves do not yield. This higher causation is not a duplicate of, nor is it in addition to, natural causation. It works within it, or rather is identical with it—when viewed at a different level and invested with the proper meaning. As we shall see presently, the Qur’ān uses both natural causation language and divine causation or religious language, in different contexts and clearly with different purposes in view. The most fundamental disparity between God and His creation is that, whereas God is infinite and absolute, every creature is finite. All things have potentialities, but no amount of potentiality may allow what is finite to transcend its finitude and pass into infinity. This is what the Qur’ān means when it says that everything except God is "measured out" (qadar or qadr, taqdir, etc.), and is hence dependent upon God, and that whenever a creature claims complete self-sufficiency or independence (istighnā’, istikbār), it thus claims infinitude and a share in divinity (shirk). When God creates anything, He places within it its powers or laws of behavior, called in the Qur’ān "guidance," "command," or "measure" whereby it fits into the rest of the universe: "He gave everything its creation and then guided [it]" (20.Ţā Hā:50); "He who created [things] and [created them] well, and who measured [them] out and thus guided [them]" (87.al-A‘lā:2-3); "Lo, to Him belong both creation and commanding" (7.al-A‘rāf:54); and, "Indeed, We have created everything with a measure" (54.al-Qamar:49; cf. 15.al-Ħijr:21). 

Tetapi jika Al-Qur'an tidak banyak berbicara tentang kosmogoni, Al-Qur'an membuat pernyataan yang sering dan berulang-ulang tentang alam dan fenomena alam, meskipun pernyataan ini selalu menghubungkan alam dengan Tuhan atau dengan manusia, atau dengan keduanya. Seringkali mereka menggambarkan kekuatan dan keagungan Tuhan yang tidak terbatas dan mengundang manusia untuk percaya kepada-Nya, atau menggambarkan belas kasihan-Nya yang tidak terbatas dan menuntut manusia untuk bersyukur kepada-Nya. Dalam kedua kasus tersebut, besaran dan kegunaan alam bagi manusia, serta stabilitas dan keteraturan fenomena alam, ditekankan. Jika Anda menabur benih dan memelihara anakan, Anda bisa berharap untuk menuai hasil; sebaliknya tidak. Jika Anda membangun kapal dan meletakkannya di laut, dan angin bertiup kencang, Anda mungkin mengantisipasi perdagangan yang menguntungkan; sebaliknya tidak. Oleh karena itu, kerja sebab-sebab alami tidak dapat dihindari dan tidak dapat disangkal. Selain sebab-akibat alamiah, bagaimanapun, ada penyebab lain yang lebih pamungkas, yang melimpahkan pada proses-proses alam secara keseluruhan suatu signifikansi dan kejelasan yang tidak dihasilkan oleh proses-proses alam yang dilihat dalam dirinya sendiri. Penyebab yang lebih tinggi ini bukanlah duplikat dari, juga bukan sebagai tambahan, penyebab alami. Ia bekerja di dalamnya, atau lebih tepatnya identik dengannya — bila dilihat pada tingkat yang berbeda dan ditanamkan dengan makna yang tepat. Seperti yang akan kita lihat sekarang ini, Al-Qur'an menggunakan bahasa penyebab alami dan penyebab ketuhanan atau bahasa agama, dalam konteks yang berbeda dan jelas dengan tujuan yang berbeda. Perbedaan yang paling mendasar antara Tuhan dan ciptaan-Nya adalah bahwa, sedangkan Tuhan itu tidak terbatas dan mutlak, setiap makhluk terbatas. Semua hal memiliki potensi, tetapi tidak ada jumlah potensi yang memungkinkan apa yang terbatas melampaui keterbatasannya dan melewati ketidakterbatasan. Inilah yang dimaksud Al-Qur'an ketika dikatakan bahwa segala sesuatu kecuali Tuhan "diukur" (qadar atau qadr, taqdir, dll.), Dan karenanya bergantung pada Tuhan, dan bahwa setiap kali makhluk mengklaim swasembada atau kemandirian penuh. (istighnā ', istikbār), dengan demikian ia mengklaim ketidakterbatasan dan berbagi dalam keilahian (syirik). Ketika Tuhan menciptakan sesuatu, Dia menempatkan di dalamnya kekuatan atau hukum tingkah lakunya, yang disebut dalam Al-Qur'an sebagai "petunjuk", "perintah", atau "ukuran" yang membuatnya cocok dengan seluruh alam semesta: "Dia memberikan segala ciptaannya. dan kemudian membimbing [itu] "(20.Ţā Hā: 50); "Dia yang menciptakan [benda] dan [menciptakannya] dengan baik, dan yang mengukur [mereka] dan dengan demikian membimbing [mereka]" (87. al-A'lā: 2-3); "Sesungguhnya, milik-Nya milik ciptaan dan perintah" (7. al-A'rāf: 54); dan, "Sungguh, Kami telah menciptakan segala sesuatu dengan ukuran" (54. al-Qamar: 49; lih. 15. al-Ħijr: 21).

If things should break their laws and violate their measure, there would be not an ordered universe, but chaos. The Qur’ān speaks frequently of the perfect order in the universe as proof not only of God's existence but also of His unity (21.al-Anbiyā’:22; cf. also the moving passage at 27.an-Naml:60-64). It should be noted that this "measuring" has a strong holistic bias in terms of patterns, dispositions, and trends. Nor is the resulting total performance conceived of in terms of particular events and acts. It is, therefore, not a theory of predetermination, although it does mean a kind of "holistic determinism." This is clear from the references where "measured" does not mean "predetermined" but "finite" or "limited." The following passage must be understood in the same light:   And the sun moves [along its course] to its resting place—that is the measuring [or determination] of the All-Mighty, the All-Knowing. And for the moon We have appointed certain stations, until it returns like an old curved stick. It is not for the sun to overtake the moon, nor for the night to overstrip the day, each coursing in its own orbit. (36.Yā Seen:38-40)   This qadar or "measure" also operates at the holistic level in the sphere of human moral actions, which by definition are free. Judgment in history, for instance, concerns the total performance of a people; in the Last Judgment, it is primarily the total performance of individuals that comes under review. The difference between nature and man is that in the case of man the particular moral actions take place by free choice. Nature is in fact so well-knit and works with such regularity that it is the prime miracle of God, cited untiringly in the Qur’ān. No being short of God could have built this vast and stable edifice: 	 	

He who created seven heavens one on top of another—you shall not find in the 	creation of the Merciful any dislocation. Look again—do you see any gap? Look 	again and again—your sight will return to you frustrated [in the attempt to find any 	discontinuity or irregularity] and fatigued. (67.al-Mulk:3-4) 	
And you see the mountains and think them solid [and stationary] but they are fleeting 	like clouds—the creation of God who has well-completed [the creation of] everything. (27.an-Naml:88)  

References to phenomena like the regularity of the day following the night and the night following the day, the rainy season when the earth is quickened following the dry season when it had been parched and dead, are strewn through the pages of the Qur’ān. This gigantic machine, the universe, with all its causal processes, is the prime "sign" (āya) or proof of its Maker. Who else but an infinitely powerful, merciful, and purposeful Being could have brought into existence something with dimensions so vast and an order and design so complex and minute? Yet, man, the Qur’ān complains recurrently, is ordinarily apt to "forget" God so long as "natural" causes work for him; it is only when natural causes fail him that he "discovers" God. What superficiality and short-sightedness! A man in dire thirst in a desert is desperately searching for water and, taking a mirage to be water, runs after it. When he gets to the point where he thought there was water, he finds no water—indeed, nothing—but in that moment of utter disillusionment he "finds" God (24.an-Nūr:39). The situation is cited as a parable for unbelievers who deem their life-record to be full of weighty and consequential deeds; these deeds, in the final analysis, will turn out to be no more than a mirage. Again, when people sail in a ship and the waters are calm and the winds favorable, they forget in their revelry that there is God. But suddenly a storm overtakes them and angry waves whipped up by strong winds encircle them, so that they think there is no escape. In that moment of utter helplessness, they cry out to God in all sincerity. After deliverance by God, they once again become rebellious and do negative deeds (10.Yūnus:22 ff.; cf. 29.al-‘Ankabūt:65 ff.). People belittle or ignore or even rebel against God, because they view the processes of nature as having self-sufficient causes, normally regarded by them as ultimate. They do not realize that the universe is a sign pointing to something "beyond" itself, something without which the universe, with all its natural causes, would be and could be nothing. The first problem is that people do not take the ordered universe to be a sign or a miracle at all, but rather look for the interruption or suppression of natural processes in order to find miracles of God. Secondly, and far more importantly, the universe as a sign vanishes into nothing when "put beside" God, for beside God nothing at all has any inherent warrant to exist. 

That the earth supports people and does not sink, and the heavens holding this immense space do not shred is itself a miracle (34.Saba’:9; 50.Qāf:6 ff.; 51.adh-Dhāriyāt:47 ff.; also 13.ar-Ra‘d:2 ff. and all verses that speak of the heavens and the earth having been firmly built and well-knit).

Indeed, there could have been just empty nothingness instead of this plenitude of being, pure inanity instead of this richness of existence, but for the primordial act of God's mercy. This  plenitude of natural being is therefore itself "supernaturally" miraculous and the greatest of all miracles "for those who sincerely ponder and surrender their ears to listen." Mercy is as ultimate an attribute of God as power, and is in a definite sense synonymous with creation. While nature therefore is autonomous in the sense that it works by its own innate laws, it is certainly not autocratic, for it does not contain its own ultimacy or final rationale as an integral part of its being.